# Agenda for the Flatcar community call on Tuesday, 13th of July, 17:30 CEST

## Links for participants
- [Slide deck](2021-07-13-slides.pdf)
- Youtube live stream link (for passively watching): [http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jcwH4ZTrXnk](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jcwH4ZTrXnk)

## Welcome
- Brief intro / check-in of all participants in the Zoom call. Please introduce yourself and share what brings you here today.
- Review the meeting agenda.

## Spotlight: Flatcar Release Process
- We will be talking about the Flatcar Release Process and Planning.

## Status update: ARM64
- List of release tests that fail
- Deep dive into selected test failures

## NEW: Release planning
- Introducing our public release planning board
- Items to be in the release of the week of July 21st
- Community input wanted for upcoming releases!

## Q&A
- Questions from community participants, answered by the Flatcar maintainers.

# Call Minutes

1.  Sayan introduces agenda for today: 
    - Flatcar releases 
    - Arm updates 
    - Flatcar release planning 
    - QA 
2. Flatcar team introduce themselves: Sayan, Jeremi, Kai, Marga, William, Danielle (program manager for ARM support for Flatcar)
3. Kai talks about Flatcar Release Process 
    - In contrast to regular distros, releases are not just bi-yearly but more frequent 
    - Update granularity is whole image, not single packages 
    - Releases are based on package updates, open PRs that are ready, and critical security fixes 
    - Build is performed on private Jenkins instance, from scratch 
    - Flatcar test suite runs on PRs
    - Big test run right before a release may uncover issues not found during development 
    - Each release is signed and gets uploaded to our website and all supported cloud providers 
    - Release planning happens every two weeks: review pending PRs and see if they can be fast tracked into the release 
      - Release planning board has been made public today (https://github.com/orgs/kinvolk/projects/15) 😊 Community input is welcome! 
    - Build/Test:
      - New SDK is produced on alpha release 
      - Update signature is always cryptographically verified 
      - Nightlies: packages from nightly builds can be consumed by SDK
    - Planned improvements to the CI process
      - Setting up a community accessible CI system (Concourse maybe) 
      - Setting up automatic CI for PRs 
      - Making release scripts independent of Jenkins and making it possible to build releases on dev machines 
4. William talks about state of ARM64:
    - William lists failing test cases 
    - A lot of test cases seem to be failing due to similar root causes, we hope the community can help investigate 
    - Ongoing work in the ARM64 stream: 
       - Polkit depends on spidermonkey, but spidermonkey is complex for cross-compilation and ARM64 
       - We are going to replace spidermonkey with duktape like others in open source community have done 
       - Help welcome! Find us on Matrix/IRC "wrl" 
5.  Sayan talks about recent releases: 
    - Alpha 2920.0.0, Beta 2905.1.0 
    - There will be monthly community call for release planning and a smaller bi-weekly to check progress
    - Sayan introduces the planning board (https://github.com/orgs/kinvolk/projects/15)  
    - Columns for planned/in-progress/ready-for-review and items-completed for the closest update of alpha (and bumps of the other release channels). 

## Q&A

* Q (Adam): migrated from CoreOS to Flatcar for hosting bioinformatics workloads on Kubernetes. Hitting limits on ignition file sizes on AWS (16K), wondering about possibility of using compression to buy some more time (ignition v3). Is ignition the right thing to use, plans for upgrade (flatcar is currently on v2)? 
   * A (Kai): Probably will upgrade to v3 at some point, but keep v2 support unlike upstream. For the AWS issue, recommend fetching bigger ignition payloads from S3, is secured by IAM. 

* Q (Adam): what's the practical difference between cloud-config vs. Ignition. If cloud-config works for us, should we still migrate? 
   * A (Kai): differences: ignition runs during initramfs, before systemd from rootfs starts, allowing more customization and potentially sparing users from a reboot. Also ignition runs once and not on every boot. Coreos-cloudconfig is an independent Go implementation of the Python cloudconfig found in Ubuntu. It’s not actively developed but will stick around. 
