# Flatcar community call Tuesday, 11th of May, 17:30 CEST

- [Slide deck](2021-05-11-slides.pdf)
- Youtube recording: [https://youtu.be/YBfq2fcjp8E](https://youtu.be/YBfq2fcjp8E)

# Call Agenda

## Welcome
- Introduction to the new community meetings
- Meet the team
- Review agenda
- Introduction: Brief intro of the team and community members participating in the call

## Flatcar Interoperability
Review of our work on interoperability and how we plan to track/report

 ## Upcoming releases
We give a brief overview of upcoming releases and the features included.

## Spotlight: CAPI
Details on our ClusterAPI work so far and future plans

## Community Q&A
Open Q&A / discussion


# Call Minutes

The meeting largely followed the [slide deck](2021-05-11-slides.pdf). After the presentation, community participants raised a total of 3 questions.

1. The Flatcar team, Thilo, Sayan, Marga, Dongsu, Mathieu, Andy, Kai, and Iago introduce themselves.
2. Andy briefly addresses the future of Flatcar following Kinvolk's acquisition by Microsoft.
   - “[...] we want to assure the Flatcar community that Microsoft and the Kinvolk team will continue to collaborate with the larger Flatcar community on the evolution of Flatcar Container Linux.” - Brendan Burns, Microsoft
   - “This will not be a replay of the movie you’ve seen before. In fact, we and Microsoft are committed to doubling down on the Flatcar community: we want to expand the universe of partners, contributors, and users, to ensure a vibrant, successful and sustainable long-term future for Flatcar as a truly open, community-driven project.” - Chris Kühl, Kinvolk
3. Thilo introduces monthly community calls and the new community focus of the Flatcar project, overcoming and leaving behind its single vendor past.
4. Marga introduces the [interop matrix](../interop-matrix.md) as a means to track Flatcar's support of runtime environments (clouds, on premise, etc.).
   - Some environments, while supported, do not currently have an owner.
   - The project aims to have community owners who operate workloads / clusters in the respective environments, in the long term.
5. Andy elaborates on Flatcar's core philosophy and shares details on stabilisation process and on release cadence.
   - Alpha introduces new major versions, which then transition to Beta and Stable. Not every Alpha is promoted to Beta, not every Beta becomes Stable.
   - Frequent Alpha releases, every 2 weeks on average.
   - Beta release for (typically) every second Alpha, with patch releases in between.
   - Stable releases roughly every 2 months.
   - "golden" Stable to become LTS once a year.
6. Sayan summarises the last round of releases, and provides an outlook of upcoming releases.
   - April 28th round shipped new major Alpha (2857.0.0) and Beta (2823.1.0) versions, and patch level updates to Stable (2765.2.3) and to LTS (2605.15.1).
     - Alpha release removes `rkt` and `kubelet-wrapper`. The changes will transition to Beta in June, and to Stable in July.
   - Upcoming May 19th releases will ship a new major Alpha (2879.0.0) and patch level updates to Beta, Stable, and LTS.
7. Dongsu provide an overview of ClusterAPI, and elaborates on our work to add Flatcar support to CAPI.
   - CAPI utilises a management cluster to deploy workload clusters on a variety of inrastructure providers.
   - Adding OS support for providers requires a separate implementation for each; there is no unified standard for OS config.
   - OS images are provided via the ClusterAPI Image Builder project.
   - Workload clusters are provisioned via the ClusterAPI Bootstrap provider.
   - Current Flatcar status:
     - QEmu and AWS OS images supported for Flatcar in Image builder.
     - Bootstrap (kubeadm) Ignition support added to enable Flatcar OS config.
     - AWS provider Ignition support added to enable Flatcar OS config.
   - Future plans:
     - support other cloud providers (Metal3, Azure, vSphere, Tinkerbell, Equinix Metal)
8. Thilo shares call for action to the community to join the project

## Q&A

- Q: **What's the relationship between ClusterAPI and Lokomotive?**
- Iago: Currently, no direct relation. We plan to investigate using parts of CAPI in the future, e.g. provisioning, but we do not plan to support the full-blown management / workload clusters pattern at this time.

- Q: **here seems to be a lack of bare metal deployments / supported platforms in the compatibility matrix - is this intentional? Do we exepct Flatcar to "just work" since it's using Linux? Is there potential to add bare metal platforms (we use / plan to use Flatcar primarily on bare metal)?**
- Thilo: It's Linux, as long as it PXE boots, you should be fine.
- Andy: Are we discussing a hardware compatibility list?
- Jannik: Not quite, however since we'll be running on bare metal we'll also test our bare metal. We're willing to support the community for our use cases.
- Vincent: Currently, if you run into issues it's best to just open a ticket. If you'd like to expose your work to the community (test results etc.) you're of course welcome to do so!
- Kai: We cover bare metal PXE boot / ignition config implicitly by our Equinix Metal workloads / CI / release tests. Lokomotive also maintains a bare metal CI test which covers PXE boots and deployments.
- Marga: It's a good point that our interop matrix currently does not discuss hardware support at all. For instance, it's tribal knowledge that Flatcar boots on Rasperry Pi (with some tweaks), but that's not documented anywhere.
- Andy: This might be something we should involve the larger community with, e.g. establishing a hardware interop list for users' existing deployments. Individual users then could volunteer to keep that list up to date for new releases since they'd be testing the release on their hardware anyway.
- Jannik: We could use the hardware interop doc to also share tweaks / notes for specific environments more easily.

- Q: **Can you talk about ARM64 support? There's Alpha support, but what's the path to Beta and Stable?**
- Thilo: It's work in progress, we staffed / resourced this concern very recently. Some plumbing level and package upgrades are necessary to make things work for Stable, these are being worked on as we speak.
- Kai: A number of system components' tests are currently failing. We're also interested in hardware enablement, i.e. getting feedback on our ARM64 kernel config / modules on different ARM64 platforms. Other than that, it's about ensuring our release tests pass.
- Thilo: We need to discuss this in terms of support levels - you could go ahead and use Alpha ARM64 support today, there are no deal breakers we know of - it will support your workload. 
  It just won't support the entire range of Flatcar features, and some boot-up units might fail (SELinux in particular).
  We're working on bringing up these components on ARM64.
